---
layout: release
permalink: /releases/simpleid-0.7/
title: SimpleID 0.7 released
date: 2009-10-03 21:57:05
categories: release
release_version: '0.7'
release_package: simpleid
package_series: '1.x'
tags: simpleid
download_title: Download SimpleID 0.7
download_url: http://sourceforge.net/projects/simpleid/files/simpleid/0.7/simpleid-0.7.tar.gz/download
release_type: 
    - features
    - bugfix
---

Beta version 0.7 of SimpleID, a simple, personal OpenID provider written in PHP, has been released.

Upgrading to version 0.7 is strongly recommended.  To download, go to [the download page](/download).

**Please note that SimpleID releases are currently in beta. This means that while the software may work, it may also have gaping security holes and other nasty bugs. Use at your own risk.**

### What's new in SimpleID 0.7

- **Improved OpenID compliance.**  SimpleID 0.7 fixes many bugs and extends compliance in its implementation of the OpenID specification.  You will be able to use SimpleID to log into more web sites with fewer problems

- **Improved performance.**  SimpleID now detects and uses native libraries for multiple-precision mathematics, meaning better performance for many web servers

- **Implementation of the draft User Interface Extension.**  SimpleID 0.7 implements the current draft [OpenID user interface extension](http://wiki.openid.net/f/openid_ui_extension_draft01.html).

- **Redesigned user interface.**  The dashboard has been redesigned.

- Many improvements to the back-end and other bug fixes

<h3 id="install">Installing and Upgrading</h3>

**SimpleID version 0.7 introduced numerous changes.  A manual
upgrading process is required.**  If you are upgrading from an earlier version of
SimpleID, please read:

- the general [upgrade instructions](http://simpleid.sourceforge.net/documentation/getting-started/upgrading) on this web site; and
- UPGRADE.txt included in the distribution

for upgrade instructions.

### Known Issues

**Please note that SimpleID releases are currently in beta. This means that while the software may work, it may also have gaping security holes and other nasty bugs. Use at your own risk.**

SimpleID 0.7 implements the OpenID specification more strictly.  This means that SimpleID will report more warnings on web sites which does not fully implement the OpenID specification.  In particular, expect to see many more [return_to discovery failure warnings](http://simpleid.sourceforge.net/documentation/troubleshooting/returnto-discovery-failure).

### Support SimpleID

If you enjoy using SimpleID, please consider making a donation to support the
ongoing development work.  To find out more on how to donate, visit
the [donation page](http://simpleid.sourceforge.net/donate).

Your donation is very much appreciated.