---
layout: release
permalink: /releases/simpleid-0.8.1/
title: SimpleID 0.8.1 released
date: 2012-01-26 09:59:07
categories: release
release_version: '0.8.1'
release_package: simpleid
tags: simpleid
download_title: Download SimpleID 0.8.1
download_url: http://downloads.sourceforge.net/simpleid/simpleid-0.8.1.tar.gz
release_type: 
    - bugfix
---

Version 0.8.1 of SimpleID, a simple, personal OpenID provider written in PHP, has been released.

Upgrading to version 0.8.1 is strongly recommended.  To download, go to [the download page](/download).

**Please note that while the software may work, it may also have gaping security holes and other nasty bugs. Use at your own risk.**

### What's new in SimpleID 0.8.1

The version mainly targets bug fixes, minor feature improvements and enhanced compliance with the OpenID specification.

- **Improvements to OpenID extensions.**  SimpleID 0.8.1 provides enhancements to the [Provider Authentication Policy Extension](http://openid.net/specs/openid-provider-authentication-policy-extension-1_0.html) by enabling the provision of private personal identifiers.

- **User interface enhancements,** with enhancements to the redirection code.

For further details on the enhancements, please see the [milestone page for this release](http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/simpleid/milestone/0.8.1).

### Installing and Upgrading {#install}

If you are upgrading from an earlier version of SimpleID, please read:

- the general [upgrade instructions](http://simpleid.sourceforge.net/documentation/getting-started/upgrading) on this web site; and
- UPGRADE.txt included in the distribution

for upgrade instructions.

### Known Issues

**Please note that while the software may work, it may also have gaping security holes and other nasty bugs. Use at your own risk.**

SimpleID continues to enhance its compliance against the OpenID specification.  This means that SimpleID will report more warnings on web sites which does not fully implement the OpenID specification.  In particular, expect to see many more [return_to discovery failure warnings](http://simpleid.sourceforge.net/documentation/troubleshooting/returnto-discovery-failure).

### Support SimpleID

If you enjoy using SimpleID, please consider making a donation to support the
ongoing development work.  To find out more on how to donate, visit
the [donation page](http://simpleid.sourceforge.net/donate).

Your donation is very much appreciated.