---
layout: release
permalink: /releases/simpleid-0.9/
title: SimpleID 0.9 released
date: 2014-04-18 09:27:40
categories: release
release_version: '0.9'
release_package: simpleid
tags: simpleid
download_title: Download SimpleID 0.9
download_url: http://downloads.sourceforge.net/simpleid/simpleid-0.9.tar.gz
release_type: 
    - features
    - bugfix
---

Version 0.9 of SimpleID, a simple, personal OpenID provider written in PHP, has been released.

Upgrading to version 0.9 is strongly recommended.  To download, go to [the download page](/download).

**Please note that while the software may work, it may also have gaping security holes and other nasty bugs. Use at your own risk.**

### What's new in SimpleID 0.9

- Enhanced security.  Passwords in [identity files](/documentation/getting-started/setting-identity/identity-files) can now be hashed using different algorithms and a salt.

- Additional login features, including login verification (two-factor authentication) using [one time passwords](/documentation/using-simpleid/managing-your-simpleid-profile/login-verification) and [SSL certificate based login](/documentation/advanced-topics/logging-using-client-ssl-certificates-version-0.9-and-later).

- Improved user interface, particularly for mobile devices, and commencing support for localisation.

- Many improvements to the back-end.

For further details on the enhancements, please see the [milestone page for this release](http://simpleid.koinic.net/trac/milestone/0.9).

### Installing and Upgrading {#install}

**SimpleID version 0.9 introduced numerous changes. A manual upgrading process is required.**  If you are upgrading from an earlier version of SimpleID, please read:

- the general [upgrade instructions](http://simpleid.sourceforge.net/documentation/getting-started/upgrading) on this web site; and
- UPGRADE.txt included in the distribution

for upgrade instructions.

**SimpleID version 0.9 also introduced backwards-incompatible changes to its API, meaning that [third party extensions](/documentation/advanced-topics/third-party-extensions) may no longer work.**  You should check with the developer of these extensions regarding upgrading to version 0.9.

### Known Issues {#issues}

**Please note that while the software may work, it may also have gaping security holes and other nasty bugs. Use at your own risk.**

### Support SimpleID

If you enjoy using SimpleID, please consider making a donation to support the
ongoing development work.  To find out more on how to donate, visit
the [donation page](http://simpleid.koinic.net/donate).

Your donation is very much appreciated.