---
layout: release
permalink: /releases/simpleid-1.0/
title: SimpleID 1.0 released
date: 2015-10-10 01:00:00
categories: release
release_version: '1.0'
release_package: simpleid
tags: simpleid
download_title: Download SimpleID 1.0
download_url: http://downloads.sourceforge.net/simpleid/simpleid-1.0.tar.gz
release_type: 
    - features
---

Version 1.0 of SimpleID, a simple, personal OpenID provider written in PHP, has been released.

Version 1.0 represents the final version of the current of the original series of SimpleID.
Future versions of SimpleID will use an almost completely rewritten codebase, which has
now been [merged into master](/news/2015/10/simpleid-2-merged-into-master/).  Apart from
critical security updates, no further versions based on the original codebase will be released.

To download this version, go to [the download page](/download).

**Please note that while the software may work, it may also have gaping security holes and other nasty bugs. Use at your own risk.**

### What's new in SimpleID 1.0

The version mainly targets security enhancements.

- Added [PBKDF2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PBKDF2) to available password hashing algorithms
- Changed hash string comparison function to mitigate against timing attacks

For further details on the enhancements, please see the [milestone page for this release](http://trac.simpleid.koinic.net/milestone/1.0).

### Installing and Upgrading {#install}

If you are upgrading from an earlier version of SimpleID, please read:

- the general [upgrade instructions](http://simpleid.koinic.net/documentation/getting-started/upgrading) on this web site; and
- UPGRADE.txt included in the distribution

for upgrade instructions.

### Known Issues {#issues}

**Please note that while the software may work, it may also have gaping security holes and other nasty bugs. Use at your own risk.**

### Support SimpleID

If you enjoy using SimpleID, please consider making a donation to support the
ongoing development work.  To find out more on how to donate, visit
the [donation page](http://simpleid.org/donate).

Your donation is very much appreciated.