---
layout: docs
title: Login verification
permalink: /docs/2/login-verification/
eleventyNavigation:
    key: 2/login-verification
    title: Login verification
    parent: 2/_using-simpleid
    order: 20
---

To further protect your profile, you can enable login verification.  Login verification adds an extra layer of security using one-time passwords generated by another device (such as your phone or a security key).  Thus in order to access your profile, an attacker will need to have access to your device as well as knowing your user name and password.

## Supported login verification methods

SimpleID supports two methods of login verification methods:

* Time-based One-time Password (TOTP), which typically uses an authenticator app on a smart phone
* WebAuthn-based authentication, which uses a phyiscal security key.

> [!NOTE]
>
> If you enable WebAuthn-based authentication, you will also enable support for [passkeys](/docs/2/passkeys), which allows you to log in without a password or additional login verification.

## What you need

For TOTP-based login verification, you will need a device (such as a smartphone) with an authenticator app that supports [RFC 6238](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6238) Time-based One-time Password Algorithm.  Examples of smartphone apps support this algorithm include:

- Google Authenticator
- Microsoft Authenticator
- FreeOTP

For WebAuthn-based authentication, you will need a physical security key such as a Yubikey.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Non-hardware security keys such as Windows Hello and iCloud Keychain cannot be used for login verification.  Instead, they can be used as [passkeys](/docs/2/passkeys).

## How to enable

### TOTP-based login verification

1. Login verification is implemented in [authentication scheme modules](/docs/2/auth-schemes).  For TOTP-based login verification this is
   `SimpleID\Auth\OTPAuthSchemeModule`.  To enable this module, open the `config.php` file and add the appropriate module names under `modules`.
2. [Log in to SimpleID](/docs/2/login)
3. From the **My Profile** page, go to the **Login Verification** box, then click **Enable**.
4. Enter the key shown on the page into your device.  If your device supports scanning QR codes, you can also scan the QR code shown.
5. Enter the 6 digit verification code shown on your device and click **Verify**.

Login verification is then enabled.  Every time you attempt to log in using this account, you will be prompted to enter the 6 digit verification code shown on your device.

### WebAuthn-based login verification

1. Login verification is implemented in [authentication scheme modules](/docs/2/auth-schemes).  For WebAuthn-based login verification this is
   `SimpleID\Auth\WebAuthnAuthSchemeModule`.  To enable this module, open the `config.php` file and add the appropriate module names under `modules`.
2. [Log in to SimpleID](/docs/2/login)
3. From the **My Profile** page, go to the **Passkeys and security keys** box, then click **Add**.
4. Enter a user-friendly name for the key, then click **Add security key**.
5. Follow the instructions on your device and insert your security key.

Login verification is then enabled.  Every time you attempt to log in using this account, you will be prompted to insert the security key (and enter a PIN if required).

## How to disable

1. [Log in to SimpleID](/docs/2/login)
2. From the **My Profile** page, go to the **Login Verification** box, then click **Disable**.

## How to recover

If login verification is enabled and you have lost the device that generates the verification code, you can [recover your account](/docs/2/common-problems#otp).